Title    : Threewave Capture
Filename : 3wave40.zip
Version  : 4.00
Date     : 97-04-12
Author   : Dave 'Zoid' Kirsch
Email    : zoid@threewave.com
Info	 : This patch contains two versions of CTF4, for Regular Quake (1.06
	       or later) and QuakeWorld 1.55 or later.  Note that you need qwsv
           1.55 and qwcl 1.55 or later in order to play.

Credits  : 

CTF3 credits
--------------

John Spickes aka Guru <jspickes@eng.umd.edu> for JTEAM
Aegis - moral support and general overexcited Quake guy
Beowulf - my cat who keeps getting me fragged when he jumps on my keyboard 
  or starts chasing my mouse
"Mike" <amichael@asu.alasu.edu> for Morning Star (Hook)
Tom "Bjorn" Klok <tomtom@mindlink.net> for original ideas such as the runes 
  and capture games, various suggestions and bug fixes.  Check his server at 
  quake.mindlink.net, 204.174.17.22
Kevin "Trojan[CampQ]" Hodgson <kevin@caseware.com> for modifing e4m5.
Byron "Wonko" Long <byron@caseware.com> for adding Flag Status reports 
  via impulse 23.
Michael "McBain" Peckman for the PreviousWeaponCommand (impulse 69)
Charles Kendrick <zillion@leland.stanford.edu> for Expert CTF mods for flag
  defense and assist bonuses.

The level editing team for the 3.0 custom release:
ctf1  McKinley Base          Dave 'Zoid' Kirsch <zoid@threewave.com>
ctf2  The Kiln               Brian Wight <briwig@odc.net>
ctf3  DySpHoRiA              Chris 'b0rt' Thibodeaux <chrislt@u.washington.edu>
ctf4  The Forgotten Mines    Brian Wight <briwig@odc.net>
ctf5  Da Ancient War Grounds Matthew 'DaBug' Hooper <junebug@linknet.net>
ctf6  Vertigo                Dale 'Midiguy' B. <midiguy@crl.com>
ctf7  Tale of Two Cities     Jamie Mactaggart <Maareck@msn.com>
ctf8  The StrongBox          Brent '[Drizzt]' Mcleod <mcleod@westworld.com>

Special thanks to all the map authors for their contributions.


The custom Skin man:  Ryan 'Grey_Ghost' Lacouture <vallore@wt.net>

                 +---------- The ThreeWave Web Dudes ----------+
                 |  Blake 'Coder' Winton <news@threewave.com>  |
                 |  Synthesizer Punk <anarchy@wasteland.org>   |
                 +---------------------------------------------+

                           - And Special Thanks To -
                           Brian 'Whaleboy' Cozzens
                                    - of -
                                    QuakeX
                            The Quake Expansion Group
                        http://www.planetquake.com/quakex/
                       For his work on the Team Logo textures
                               And the Flag models

CTF4 Credits
------------

The level editing team for the 4.0 custom release:
ctfstart Introduction          John Romero <romero@ionstorm.com>
                               Additional CTF exits by Dave 'Zoid' Kirsch 
                               <zoid@threewave.com>
ctf2m1   McKinley Station      Dave 'Zoid' Kirsch <zoid@threewave.com>
ctf2m2   The Warzone           John 'Tattoo' Schultz <tattoo@enteract.com>
ctf2m3   Spill the Blood       Dale 'midiguy' Bertheola <midiguy@crl.com>
ctf2m4   Ruins of NeoMinonk    Ogre 'El_Ergo' De Latoya 
                               <jmbaker@odin.cmp.ilstu.edu>
ctf2m5   Disciple War Grounds  Hexadecimal <prestonglenn@spartanburg.net>
ctf2m6   The Two Towers        Alexander Bernecker 
                               <alexb@informatik.uni-bremen.de>
ctf2m7   Gloom Castles         Tim Willits <twillits@idsoftware.com>
ctf2m8   Capturephobolis       American McGee <american@idsoftware.com>

[ctfstart, ctf2m7 and ctf2m8 appear compliments of id software]

Nat 'Suck' Friedman <ndf@aleph1.mit.edu> for some tidbits on the status bar,
and the identify player impulse.

Special thanks for the camera code as well.

ShredCo for some id map conversion work.

Greg 'Q-Man' Olson <qman@xenocide.org> and others for the id map
conversions.

Brian 'Vader' Wallace (of Clan FLAG!) <vader@columbia.edu> for assistance in
testing.

The Rangers, http://rangers.planetquake.com/, for their assistance and
support.

Bob '[R2]Uppa' Mollard <uppa@mortal.combat.org> for much assistance in testing
and keeping me from losing my sanity.

Type of Mod
-----------
Quake C  : yes
Sound    : yes
MDL      : yes

Format of QuakeC
----------------
.qc files     : yes
progs.dat     : yes


QUICKSTART
----------

1.  This patch supports serveral modes of operating all related to Capture
    the Flag.  It can also provide an enhanced form of normal DeathMatch
    as well.  In the default configuration, it is set up for using a
	special start map for voting that determines the set of levels to play.

    NOTE: For custom CTF support, you need this server side package AND
    the client side one for the special levels.  In other words, to install
    this on a server you need 3wave30.zip, 3wctfc30.zip and 3wctfc40.zip
	(server side and client side).  See step 5 for more information.

    Even though this is a Quickstart, I really, really recommend one reads
    this entire file.

2.  This file assumes you are running Linux.  Windows 95 or NT operators
    will have to replace the / characters with backslash (\) and stuff like
    xquake with q95.bat or winded.exe.  Major differences will be noted.

3.  Go into your central Quake directory and make a subdirectory called
    "ctf"

        cd quake
        mkdir ctf

4.  Unzip this file into that directory (pkunzip users, make sure you use -d).  
    You should have progs.dat, qwprogs.dat, server.txt (this file), a 
	subdirectory called src that contains the Quake-C source for regular
	Quake, a subdirectory called qwsrc that contains the QuakeWorld source, 
	a subdirectory called maps that contains several *.ent files for adding 
	CTF support to id's levels and autoexec.cfg (load time server settings)
	for regular Quake and a server.cfg file for QuakeWorld.

5.  Download the client patch (3wctfc30.zip and 3wctfc40.zip) and unzip it 
    into this directory as well.  It should add pak0.pak, pak1.pak and 
	readme.txt.  DO NOT OVERWRITE YOUR EXISTING pak0.pak AND pak1.pak FILE 
	IN THE id1 DIRECTORY.

6.  Unpack the pak0.pak and pak1.pak files from the id1 subdirectory.
    Linux users can use
    ftp://ftp.cdrom.com/pub/quake/utils/bsp_pak_tools/wreckdum.tar.gz
    and Windows 95/NT users can use
    ftp://ftp.cdrom.com/pub/quake/utils/bsp_pak_tools/winpak12.zip
    [Be certain to check for newer versions there as well].

7.  Copy the *.bsp files you extracted from id's pak0.pak and pak1.pak in step
    6 to quake/ctf/maps:
        Linux:  cp quake/id1/maps/*.bsp quake/ctf/maps
        DOS/Win: copy \quake\id1\maps\*.bsp \quake\ctf\maps

8.  Get a copy of qbsp in order to modify the id's bsp files that you copied
    in step 8 for CTF support.  Win95/NT users can get qbsp.exe from
    ftp://ftp.idsoftware.com/idstuff/source/qutils.zip.  Linux users can look
    around or email me for a qbsp Linux binary I compiled myself.

9.  Make sure that qbsp is in your path, then:
    Windows 95/NT users should do this following:
        cd \quake\ctf\maps
        dobsp.bat
    Linux users should do this:
        cd quake/ctf/maps
        sh dobsp.sh
    This will use qbsp to modify the *.bsp files you cpied in step 8 with the
    *.ent files that come with the server kit.
    It shouldn't take more than a minute to do them all.
    [NOTE: This would be a bit easier if I could distribute the already 
    modified bsp files, but id's licensing does not permit that.  I 
    emailed Jay Wilbur (the biz guy) about this and his response was:
            There is no problem in what you intend to do if the file you 
            intend to distribute is nothing more then a glorified text file 
            that registered server running users use to modify their maps. 
    So that's the official party line].

10. Load the autoexec.cfg file for regular Quake, or the server.cfg for
    QuakeWorld in the ctf directory into your favorite text
    editor (NOTE to Win95/NT users.  Notepad will barf on this file because it
    is in Unix text format.  Use the DOS based EDIT to work on it).  The
    default one looks like this:

        sys_ticrate 0.1
        deathmatch 1
        teamplay 1955?CTF4
        hostname "Capture the Flag 4"
        timelimit 35
        fraglimit 150
        noexit 2
        pausable 0
        sv_aim 1
        map ctfstart

    Detailed description follows:

        sys_ticrate 0.1
            This sets the update frequency of the server to remote players.
            The default is 0.05.  Modem players will be a lot happier if its
            set to 0.1.  Not needed for QuakeWorld

        teamplay 1955
            The teamplay variable has been overloaded a lot.  It's a set of
            bit flags that indicate the team configuration options.  See the
            section on the teamplay variable below.  Essentially, you figure
            out which options you want enabled, add them all together and set
            the teamplay variable to that value.
            A significant value added to this is 512: it controls whether the
            custom CTF stuff is enabled or not.  If it is not enabled, your
            clients do not have to download any files to play on the server.
            If it is, they have to download the special client pak from the
            ThreeWave home page at http://quake.threewave.com/
			512 is assumed in QuakeWorld (custom only).
			1024 (team selection) is not available in QuakeWorld.

        hostname "Capture the Flag 4"
            This is the hostname of your Quake server that people see when
            they query it.  I recommend you use something that identifies it
            as your server.  It is best to leave CTF in the title so people
            know your server is running CTF.

        timelimit 35
            If no one gets to the fraglimit in 35 minutes, change levels
            anyway.

        fraglimit 150
            Change levels when someone gets to 150 frags.

        noexit 2
            Exits on CTF really really, don't make sense.

        pausable 0
            Stop those annoying people from playing pause games.
        
        map ctfstart
			Start on the new ctfstart map.  This allows exit voting.

11. You will probably want to modify the message of the day displayed upon
    connection, or enable the remote adminstration functions in admin.qc.  To
    do this, you must edit the files status.qc for the MOTD and admin.qc to
    enter an admin code.

    After you have made the changes, you must compile the Quake-C source.  qcc
    comes with the qutils package mentioned in 9.  Just run qcc in the
    quake/ctf/src directory.  Assuming a succesful compile, copy the new
    progs.dat to quake/ctf.

	For QuakeWorld, the src is in quake/ctf/qwsrc, copy the qwprogs.dat to
	quake/ctf

13. Run the server.  Linux:

        cd quake
        ./xquake -dedicated 16 -game ctf

    Windows 95/NT:

        cd \quake
        q95 -dedicated 16 -game ctf

            - or -

        cd \quake
        winded -dedicated 16 -game ctf

	QuakeWorld:

		qwsv +gamedir ctf

***NOTE
	Please note, the subdir must be called 'ctf'.  The new qwsv automatically
	transmits the gamedir to the clients.  Since the clients are all installed
	as 'ctf', you must also use this directory on the server.
***NOTE

14. Enjoy!

[What's new section moved near the end]

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Description of the Modification
-------------------------------

Teamplay (much of this documentation comes from John Spickes Complete
    Enhanced Teamplay Patches).
        
        The Complete Enhanced Teamplay is a QuakeC mod which is intended
        to provide a great deal of flexibility in teamplay settings.  I've
        retained all of the original functionality of Quake v1.01 and my
        previous Enhanced Teamplay, and added many more features.  My aim
        is to have lots of useful teamplay options which the server can
        select at will, while minimizing my modification to the original
        QuakeC code.  The options included in this release are:

        * Players' health can be protected from friendly fire damage
        * Players' armor can be protected from friendly fire damage
        * Damage inflicted to teammates can be mirrored on the attacker
        * Frags can be deducted for the killing of teammates
        * Players can be killed for killing their teammates
        * Players can be required to use only colors specified by the server
        * Players can be prohibited from changing teams
        * Players can be allowed to drop ammo and weapons

        All these options can be turned on and off individually.

        Teamplay feature use:

        A lot of options can be configured with this mod.  The majority of
        these options are configurable using the teamplay variable.
        This mod uses the teamplay variable as a bitfield, with each bit
        associated with a different teamplay option.  The bits are as follows:

        1       Health Protect
                Players receive no health damage from teammates' attacks.
        2       Armor Protect
                Players receive no armor damage from teammates' attacks.
        4       Damage to Attacker
                A player who attacks his teammate will receive the same
                damage the teammate would have received, had he not been
                protected.
        8       Frag Penalty
                Any player who kills his teammate will be penalized frags.
                The number of frags to penalize is adjustable by a simple
                edit in the teamplay.qc file.
        16      Death Penalty
                Any player who kills his teammate will burst apart in a
                bloody mess.
        32      Team Color Lock
                Players will only be allowed to be certain colors.  Team
                colors can be specified for up to four teams in the
                teamplay.qc file.  Players who have illegal colors
                when they enter will be put into the team with the fewest
                members.  Any player who changes team (pants color) will
                be fragged and their frag count is reset to zero.
        64      Static Teams
                Players will not be allowed to change teams.  
        128        Drop Items
                Players will be allowed to drop ammo and weapons.  
                IMPULSE 20 will drop a backpack and IMPULSE 21 will 
                drop the current weapon.  You can't drop the axe or
                single-shotgun.
        256     Capture the Flag
                This enables Capture the Flag support.
        512     Custom Capture the Flag
                The enables the use of new sounds, models, maps and skins for
                Capture the Flag.  If you enable this, your clients must
                download the CTF custom pak file and install it.
				***NOTE:  Not in QW version, assumes custom
		1024    Enable the ability for players to select a team
        
        Obviously, not all these options make sense together.  teamplay 9
        doesn't really make sense, because you couldn't ever kill a
        teammate, and thus you could never incur the one frag penalty.
        To select multiple options, add the numbers of the options together.

        Examples:
        teamplay 96     Team Color Lock, Static Teams
                This results in players being automatically assigned to
                teams and not allowed to change to other teams.
        teamplay 3      Health Protect, Armor Protect
                You can't hurt your teammates' health OR armor.
        teamplay 28     Mirror Damage, Frag Penalty, Death Penalty
                When you shoot your teammates, you take damage and so
                do they.  If you kill a teammate, you'll take a frag
                penalty and you'll be killed.
        teamplay 120    Static Teams, Color Lock, Frag Penalty, Death Penalty
        teamplay 355    Static Teams, Color Lock, Health Protect, Armour
                Protect, Capture the Flag
        teamplay 483    Static Teams, Color Lock, Health Protect, Armour
                Protect, Capture the Flag, Drop Items
        teamplay 419    Color Lock, Health Protect, Armour
                Protect, Capture the Flag, Drop Items
        teamplay 995    Static Teams, Color Lock, Health Protect, Armour
                Protect, Capture the Flag, CUSTOM Capture the Flag, Drop Items
        teamplay 931    Color Lock, Health Protect, Armour
                Protect, Capture the Flag, CUSTOM Capture the Flag, Drop Items
        teamplay 2019   Static Teams, Color Lock, Health Protect, Armour
                Protect, Capture the Flag, CUSTOM Capture the Flag, 
				Drop Items, Player can choose teams

        [I use teamplay 995 on my server.  You must have team color lock
        for capture the flag.  Anything else is very confusing.
        Another common setting is 931, which is the same except players
        are allowed to switch between teams.  -Zoid] 

        Besides the teamplay setting, there are some other options that can
        be modified by editing the source.  These options are constants at
        the beginning of teamplay.qc and are marked so you can find them.
        One option specifies the default frag penalty.  This is the number
        of frags that will be deducted by the bit-field Frag Penalty setting.

        There are four constants in teamplay.qc which allow configuration of
        the teamlock settings.  TEAM_COLOR1 thru TEAM_COLOR4 have values
        indicating a legal team color, or -1.  A value of -1 indicates that
        this team is not used.  Thus, the number of teams is adjustable
        from 1 to 4.

        Example:

        float   TEAM_COLOR1 =   4;
        float   TEAM_COLOR2 =   13;
        float   TEAM_COLOR3 =   -1;
        float   TEAM_COLOR4 =   -1;

        This setting indicates that there should be two teams.  Team 1's
        color is red and team 2's color is blue.  Teams 3 & 4 are not used
        and thus have a value of -1.

        NOTE: If you enable Capture the Flag, you MUST HAVE ONLY TWO
        TEAMS defined.  TEAM_COLOR3 and TEAM_COLOR4 MUST be set to
        -1.  If you don't, results are unpredictable.

        If you change any of the constant values, you must recompile before
        your changes will take effect.

                      THE COMPLETE ENHANCED TEAMPLAY

                              Programming by
                          John Spickes aka Guru
                          jspickes@eng.umd.edu                               
        [Please direct any comments about this package to *me*, Zoid at
        zoid@mindlink.net.  Don't bug John about my mods].

Capture the Flag

   Capture the flag offers an exciting variation on team play.  It gives
   meaning to base defense along with offensive positioning and strikes.
   The implementation is an extension of John Spickes JTEAM patches.

   The basic premise is: attack the enemy base, grab their flag than
   take it back to your base.  In the variation I've written into Quake,
   you must touch your base flag when carrying the enemy flag in order
   to score.

   Map modifications have to be done in order to enable Capture the Flag
   play on a map.  See the accompaning file capture.txt for information
   on how to modify maps for flag support.
   
   Rules:

   - Two sections of the map are designated as base encampments.  
   - When you join the game (or enter the level) you are assigned to a
     team (Using John Spickes JTEAM patches, with many modifications).
     Changing teams may or may not be allowed depending on the setting
     of the teamplay variable.  You are spawned at the base (this is were 
     my map mods come in).  If you die, you are not spawned at the base, 
     but at one of the deathmatch start spots.
      This way, you don't kill a guy trying to get the flag at the base and he
     comes back to life immediately there.
   - The flags are based on the key models.  If you pick up the enemy flag,
     you must touch your flag in order to win.  Note that if you get
     back to the base, your flag might not be there if the other team
     has it!  Get the rest of your team to go get their flag back!  The
     player who touches his base flag when carrying the other team's gets
     20 frags, and everyone on his team gets 10 frags.  
     Also, when you get a flag, you have that nice glow around you (such as 
     when you get the quad damage.) If you kill an opposing team player who 
     has your flag, he drops it.  If you touch your flag, it will teleport 
     back to your base.
   - Since everyone starts at their base after level change, or joining the
     game, the team will have to work out who is going to go and try to get
     the enemy flag (offensive strike), and who will stay to defend.  
     Yes, this is camping, but its camping with a cause!  Remember, you can 
     communicate only with teammates by using messagemode2.  Put this in your
     id1\autoexec.cfg file
        bind r "messagemode2"
     When you hit "r", you will get the usually talk prompt, except your 
     message will only go to your teammates.

Runes
   The rune game (several functions near the end of items.qc).  Runes are
   spawned randomly, one of each with an unique power.  Currently there are
   four:
     - Earth (resistance, half damage)
     - Black (strength, double damage)
     - Hell (haste, double fire rate) 
     - Elder (regeneration)
   When someone dies, the rune pops out and can be picked up.  You can only 
   carry one rune at a time.

MOTD
   MOTD (Message of the day) function added.  To change it edit client.qc
   and edit the text near the top.  There are different messages for
   regular deathmatch, team mode and capture the flag mode.

Suicide protection.  
   A person can suicide four times, then can't suicide anymore.
   Resets after level change (there are legitmate reasons to suicide,
   but rarely more than four times in a level).

Telefrag Delay
   When telefragged, the person who was killed stays dead for two to
   five seconds.  This is needed to get rid of the "frag snowball" effect
   one sees at the beginning of a new level, when 16 players try to
   fit into five deathmatch spots.  The telefrags would snowball and
   eventually crash the server.  With this delay, its eliminated.

Server Logging
   Server logging.  This is really useful in for a Linux server, since
   I save the log files.  Reports on why a client connects, how they died,
   etc.  This is still being fine tuned.

   Windows 95/NT server operators:  use the -condebug Quake command line
   paramter to dump the log to a file.
 
Grappling Hook
   New weapon added.  "Mike" <amichael@asu.alasu.edu> Morning Star, renamed
   to grappling hook.  Changed to use existing models (vore ball for hook,
   spikes for the chain links).  This weapon lets you hook the ceiling and
   get pulled toward it (think of Batman's grapple in the movies).  You can
   also hang from the ceiling and snipe at people.  Don't worry, its doesn't
   make camping any more effective, as a rocket at the ceiling usually
   deals with anyone handing around.  :)
   IMPULSE 22 or select axe twice.

Redundant Message Removal
   Removed redundant messages such as "You got the shells" or "You got the
   armor."  This was just cluttering up the message stream and isn't needed
   since pickups are already signified by a flash and an audio cue.

What's new in 4.00
------------------

- Lots

What's new in 3.50
------------------

- All monster code has been ripped out.  This cut the progs.dat size in half.
  Monsters aren't used in CTF or deathmatch, so I don't see the point of
  keeping them.

- Players can now choose teams.  You can enable this by adding 1024 to the
  teamplay variable.  Until the choice is made, the player is in observer mode
  and can wander around and watch the action.
  Combined with the remote admin functions, this can allow clan matches to be
  set up a lot easier.  Get everyone to join, pick teams and play.  For a
  'timed' start, a person could stay in observer mode, access the remote admin
  functions and then change the level after everyone has selected teams.

- Default autoexec.cfg lists teamplay as 2019?CTF3.5
  This is useful in that people with programs such as QSpy can see the
  version.  A new release of QSpy will decode the teamplay variable as well.

- Remote adminstration much enhanced to include level change ability.
  Administration functions (impulses) work while you are dead, too.  Just die
  and do your admin stuff.  Much easier than trying to find a place to hide.
  Admin impulses also work during observer mode before team selection.

- Various minor bug fixes

What's new in 3.20
------------------

- Flag now appears on the flag carrier.  This looks very cool.

- Expert CTF patch by Chrles Kendrick <zillion@leland.stanford.edu>.  This
  adds stuff such as capture assists, bonuses for flag and flag carrier
  defense.  Gives credit to the team members that work together in getting and
  protecting the flags.

What's new in 3.00
------------------

Custom Capture the Flag!

What's new in 2.51
------------------

- Oops.  Fixed a bug where the flag dropped by fragging an enemy carrier would
  fall through the floor has been fixed.  I hate it when that happens.

What's new in 2.50
------------------

This is the last release before the custom stuff will be the standard.  This
should hold you over until the custom stuff is finished and ready to go soon.
I know you are all dying to see the cool flag models, but just hold your
horses.  It'll be out soon.

- Remote Adminstration
  There is a new remote adminstration function.  It is enabled by sending
  three 'secret' impulses in a specific order.  BY DEFAULT ADMIN ACCESS
  IS DISABLED.  In order to enable it, edit the file admin.qc to enter
  a password impulse sequence and recompile with qcc.
  Currently, the admin functions are a simple remote client kick, and the
  ability to change someone from one team to another.  Please read admin.qc
  for more details.

- Version number is now printed upon connect

- Flamethrower removed.
  Main reason was it was mostly useless.
  I've put a lot of consideration about adding weapon patches to the ThreeWave
  CTF pack.  My conclusion (with the exception of the hook) is that they don't
  belong there.   The ThreeWave mods is about teamplay and fun.  It's not
  about way cool weapon patches.  Server adminstrators are quite welcome to
  hack in other patches into the code if they wish.

- New maps:  e4m4, e4m5, e4m6, dm3 and dm6.  Server operators by sure to
  copy over the new bsp files for this maps and run dobsp.bat
  Oh, e1m8 was modified to be more fair.

- Better logging
  The server logging is now seperated by tabs.  BE WARNED that the source
  contains embedded tabs in some strings now (mostly in log.qc); be careful
  with editors that strip out tabs.  Real men who use vi will not have a
  problem.  :)
  The logging can be parsed easy by programs such as perl or awk for statistic
  generation.  If you want to turn off logging, comment out the bodies of the
  functions in log.qc and recompile.

- Significant changes to the internal handling of team colors.  Trying to
  change your team colors will instantly gib you, in both static color and
  non-static modes.  The reason for this is before they could would just
  send the server a command to change color and the server would change
  your color back.  People were constantly sending color commands
  repeatedly (a macro, causing lag, too) to appear as another color.  In
  2.3, you will be on the other "team" for a second cause the enemy team
  to not be able to damage you.  Enough of that crap. Change colors and
  you get gibbed. Change colors five times and you get kicked from the
  server.  Goodbye.

- Proper messages for explaining why the losers suddenly gibbed when trying to
  change team colors.

- Earth Rune
  This rune was changed so it only protects health.  It no longer causes half
  damage to armour.  So, the damage goes through your armor at full strength,
  then the remaining is halved and then your health is removed.  A guy with
  the Earth Rune, 200% armor and a grenade launcher could literally go berzerk
  and cause lots of mayhem and not die!

- McBain's Previous Weapon Impulse.  Impulse 69 (seemed appropirate) will
  toggle between your last two weapons.  Nice for switching to the RL and then
  switching back.  Makes binding stuff like quick rocket keys very easy since
  you can just do:
          bind q "impulse 7;wait;+attack;wait;-attack;impulse 69"

- Hook velocity lowered to 800 from 1000.

- Various team bonus variables added to teamplay.qc.  If you want to tune the
  CTF scoring on your server, just edit the TEAM_CAPTURE_..._BONUS variables
  in teamplay.qc and recompile.

- Capture the Flag Status report from Wonko, Impulse 23.
  Very handy command Wonko gave to me.  Impulse 23 will tell your the status
  of the flags: if they are at base, lying about, or who is carrying them.

- Bug in the Impulse 21 for weapon drop where if you have a weapon from a
  previous level that doesn't exist on the current level (for example, the
  lightning gun going from a registered to a shareware level) and tried to
  drop it, the server would crash.

- Impulse 11 server crash bug fix.

What's new in 2.30
------------------

- The team you are joined to upon connection is now printed in the MOTD.

- Message changes:  changed a lot of the messages printed to include the
  flag colour.  Also changed much of the important text to the alternate
  color font.  This makes it *much* easier to quickly scan the incoming
  messages and see what's going on.

- New map e2m5: The Wizard's Manse. This level rocks for CTF play.  The
  bases are pretty well balanced.  NOTE TO ADMINS:  Make sure you copy
  over the *.bsp files and use dobsp to modify the new maps included in
  this release.

- Color switching cheating has been greatly reduced, if not removed.  This is
  where the client would stuff a bunch of commands to change color while
  attacking.  The color check is now done *before* attack checks so your
  color gets 'fixed' before you have a chance to hurt a (previous) teammate.
  Cheaters never prosper.  Besides, stuffing tons of color commands causes
  lag.  Excellent target for the new 1.06 ban command.

- Bug in the sound generated in by the Earth Rune has been fixed.

- Possible lag problem with the grappling hook has been greatly reduced.
  Turns out the think time on the chain links was 0.01, which is 100 times
  a second (ouch!).  It's now 0.1 which cuts it in ten.
 
- Sound changes for grappling hook:  the sound when the hook makes contact
  with a wall is now the axe 'clang'. Makes it much more obvious someone
  is hooking and makes more sense as the hook embeds itself in the wall
  with a nice satisfying sound.  Also, a small puff sound [Hell Knight
  missile fire] is played on launching the grapple.

- Fixed it so that if you pick up a weapon while using the grapple, it
  is *not* made the new weapon.  This was very annoying on levels such as
  e1m8 where you'd grapple yourself to a rocket launcher suddenly to have
  it as the selected weapon and you start immediately firing into a nearby
  wall and usually frag yourself.  I'm sure many people will appreciate
  this fix.

- Fixed it so that user dropped backpacks (impulse 20) don't immediately
  get picked up again by the same player.

- Default autoexec.cfg changed to teamplay 483.  This allows impulse 20
  and 21 to drop backpacks or weapons to teammates.  Very handy for helping
  out base defenders, "Get me some rockets!"

- Scoring has changed.  After a lot of testing, the following scoring
  values have been choosen as the defaults.  Note that you can change
  them in teamplay.qc if you feel necessary.  But they've been through
  a month of testing and are pretty balanced.  The scores are [from
  teamplay.qc]:
    float TEAM_CAPTURE_CAPTURE_BONUS = 12; // what you get for capture
    float TEAM_CAPTURE_TEAM_BONUS = 12; // what your team gets for capture
    float TEAM_CAPTURE_RECOVERY_BONUS = 1; // what you get for recovery
    float TEAM_CAPTURE_FLAG_BONUS = 1; // what you get for picking up enemy flag
    float TEAM_CAPTURE_FRAG_CARRIER_BONUS = 3; // what you get for fragging
        //enemy flag carrier

- Self dropped weapons via impulse 21 weren't being removed properly.

- You can't drop a hook with impulse 21 (doing so would crash the server).

- Fixed it so that if Static Teams is not enabled (players can changed teams)
  and someone changed teams while carrying a flag, the correct flag is
  dropped.  Before, it would drop the other flag (possibly creating two
  flags for the team the player was originally on).  Very messy.

What's new in 2.20
------------------

  Well, the telefrag fixes Cash doesn't work the way I want it to.  It
  causes repeated telefrags on the "last" spawn spot.  The one from
  ServerModules was a lot nicer.  I've put that one back in and removed
  Cash's code.  Also, in 2.1 the server would crash (runaway loop error)
  if you loaded a map without flag support but TEAM_CAPTURE_FLAG was
  enabled.

  Fixed it where people could cheat if Static Teams was set (this is
  usually set like teamplay = 355).  The player could change his color
  to the other team while touching his flag and he would pick the flag
  up (!!) then change back.  30 seconds later my SanityCheck routines we
  notice that there is no flag (must be at base or enemy player) and
  return it.  This player could then capture his own flag.  It was very
  ugly.  This wasn't a problem if you didn't have static teams enabled
  (eg. teamplay 291), since players get gibbed if they change teams.

  If you don't have static teams, when a player changes teams and gets
  gibbed, the obituary messages is "Player changed teams" instead of the
  "bored with life".

What's new in 2.10
------------------

  Ok, the code is now integrated with id's 1.06 Quake-C code.  Minor
  fixes.  Oh, at end of the level the team totals are counted up
  and then everyone's frag value is set to the team total.  This
  way you cleary see which team won.
  Probably a few other fixes here and there.  It's just better, ok?

Copyright and Distribution Permissions
--------------------------------------

Authors MAY use these modifications as a basis for other
publically available work.
^^^^^^^^^^

Use this in a commercial endevour and become a friend of Satan.  Talk to me
first, ok?

DISCLAIMER:  Dave 'Zoid' Kirsch is not responsible for any harm or
psychological affects, loss of sleep, fatigue or general
irresponsibility from playing this patch.

If you put this on a CD, you owe me three free copies of the CD.
You also owe a free copy of the CD to all the contributed authors listed at
the top of the document.  At last count, that's ten CDs.  You pay postage,
too.  Don't like this?  Don't put it on a CD!

If you take my work and rip my name off, you will burn in hell.

Availability
------------

This modification is available from the following places:

WWW   : http://quake.threewave.com/

